---
title: "POS 2019/20"
date: "2020-06-17"
language: "Java"
website: "https://github.com/TheCrether/POS/tree/2019-2020(3rd)/"
desc: "Java programming class from my 3rd year at HTBLA Kaindorf"
imgPath: "projects/pos-19_20.png"
---

This branch is basically all my projects that I did with Java in my Programming class (POS), while in third grade of my school.
The image you see above is from the project SchoolDB, where we managed students.

[Github Branch][1] -> This repo is offline because people from my school were copying my projects and handing them in.

## Why

I needed a good way of managing my growing source code when doing the tasks from school.
The other part, which I found very pleasant, was that I could now share my code more easily between my laptop and PC.

## How

All the projects you see are basically what I learnt during the year.

The specific years are listed in the different branches so I don't have to manage multiple repositories.

## What is the content

At the time of writing this, I am in the third school year.

In this year we did a lot of work regarding multiple important aspects of programming with Java.

### Android

[Link to Folder][2]

In the first semester, we did a lot with Android.
We learned how to make a Android apps with a lot of the different building blocks that are available out of the box.

The main topics we covered were:

- Basic layouting (`LinearLayout`) and modifying data
- More complex layouts (`RelativeLayout`)
- the use of lists through the `RecyclerView`
- how to move between Activities with the use of `Intent`s

### Threads

During the transition from the first semester to the second semester, we had some periods with Threads in Java.
We also solved some [ProjectEuler][4] problems with Threads.

Here the main aspects were:

- how to create threads
- how to manage them in a `ExecutorService` & `ExecutorCompletionService`
- how to "synchronize" them with the `synchronized` block

### JDBC

[Link to Folder][3]

After using Threads, we switched to using JDBC with PostgreSQL. We did not use any framework like Hibernate.
We had some fun projects here like managing a database of employees

What we did:

- How to connect to the database and use the right database driver
- how to build a good structure for accesing the database
- the use of `PreparedStatement`s
- I also splitted the SQL statements for the `PreparedStatement`s into seperate files and had a structured way of loading them

## Conclusion

This year's programming tasks were fun most of the time, but I still like languages like TypeScript or Golang more than Java.

[1]: https://github.com/TheCrether/POS/tree/2019-2020(3rd)/
[2]: https://github.com/TheCrether/POS/tree/2019-2020(3rd)/Android
[3]: https://github.com/TheCrether/POS/tree/2019-2020(3rd)/jdbc
[4]: https://projecteuler.net
